.\" Manpage for secret(1).
.\" To see this page formatted: man -l share/man/man1/secret.1
.TH SECRET 1 "May 2026" "scripts" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
secret \- multi-store secret manager with GPG-at-rest and git-backed sync

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B secret
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.RI [ args ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B secret
manages secrets in multiple
.IR stores .
Each parameter is GPG-encrypted at rest and the store is a git
repository so changes can be pulled, pushed, and synchronised
between
.BR account (1)
peers.

The special
.I password-store
maps onto
.BR pass (1):
.B secret pass-init
bootstraps it,
.B secret get password-store/<name>
delegates to
.BR pass .

.SH STORES
A
.I store
is a directory at
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/secret/<store>/
(or
.I /etc/secret/<store>/
when running as root). Each parameter is a file
.IB <param> .gpg
encrypted to the recipients listed in
.IB <store> /.gpg/recipients .

The
.I password-store
is a special case:
.IR ~/.password-store ,
managed by
.BR pass (1).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -d
Enable debug (shell tracing) mode.
.TP
.B -q
Enable quiet mode.
.TP
.B -f
Force mode for
.BR pull / push .

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

.SS Store management
.TP
.B stores
List existing stores.
.TP
.BI "params " store
Show every parameter in
.IR store .
.TP
.BI "init " store
Create
.IR store .
.TP
.B pass-init
Bootstrap the
.BR pass (1)
password-store using the current
.B account identity
as recipient (see
.BR account (1)).
.TP
.BI "exists " store
Exit 0 if the store exists.
.TP
.BI "destroy " store
Remove the store.
.TP
.BI "clean " store
Remove empty parameters.

.SS Parameter access
.TP
.BI "ls [" store ]
List every parameter.
.TP
.BI "has " store/param
Exit 0 if parameter exists.
.TP
.BI "set " store/param
Encrypt and write the value from stdin.
.TP
.BI "get " store/param
Decrypt and print the value to stdout.
.TP
.BI "del " store/param
Delete the parameter.
.TP
.BI "qr " store/param
Render the value as a QR code.
.TP
.BI "gen " store/param
Generate a random value and print to stdout.
.TP
.BI "def " store/param " " value
Create a default with the given value.
.TP
.BI "ins " store/param
Insert a line from stdin.
.TP
.BI "rem " store/param
Remove a line via stdin.
.TP
.BI "edit " store/param
Open in
.BR $EDITOR .

.SS Synchronisation
.TP
.BI "remotes [" stores ]
List the remotes for the stores.
.TP
.BI "pull [" store "] [" account ]
Pull
.I store
from
.IR account .
The SSH endpoint is resolved via
.B account remote-url
(FEAT-044).
.TP
.BI "push [" store "] [" account ]
Push
.I store
to
.IR account .
.TP
.BI "sync [" store "] [" account ]
Pull then push.
.TP
.B sources
List import/export source providers and their availability, one per line
as
.IR name "<TAB>" status .
.TP
.BI "export " source " " store
Push every parameter of
.I store
into
.IR source .
The built-in
.B keyring
source is the GNOME / freedesktop Secret Service (via
.BR secret-tool (1)).
External providers are
.BI secret-source- name
executables found in
.I $PREFIX/libexec/secret/sources/
or on
.IR $PATH .
.TP
.BI "import " source " " store
Pull
.IR source 's
items into the (existing)
.IR store ,
re-encrypting each to the store's recipients. See
.B secret
source plugin protocol in
.IR docs/sources.md .
.TP
.BI "templates [" name ]
List the built-in entry templates, or print one template's fields.
.TP
.BI "new " template " " store / entry " [" field = value "...] [\-\-attach]"
Create a structured entry from
.IR template ,
storing each field as the parameter
.IR entry / field .
Extension templates
.RB ( mfa ", " passkey )
may be
.B \-\-attach
ed to a base entry. Templates:
.BR login ", " wifi ", " mfa ", " passkey ", " wallet "."
See
.IR docs/templates.md .
.TP
.BI "otp " store / entry
Print the current TOTP code for an
.B mfa
entry, via
.BR oathtool (1).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Defaults to
.IR ~/.config .
.TP
.B SELF_DEBUG
Enable shell tracing.
.TP
.B SELF_QUIET
Suppress informational output.
.TP
.B SELF_FORCE
Set when
.B -f
is given.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/secret/<store>/
Per-store directory, git-tracked.
.TP
.IR ~/.password-store /
The
.BR pass (1)
password-store.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B "non-zero"
Failure. Fatal-handler prints
.IR "secret: fatal - <message>" .

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B secret init bitcoin
Create the
.I bitcoin
store.
.TP
.B "echo $TOKEN | secret set bitcoin/api/key"
Encrypt
.I $TOKEN
to the recipients of the
.I bitcoin
store and write to
.IR api/key .
.TP
.B secret get bitcoin/api/key
Decrypt and print.
.TP
.B secret sync alice@example.com
Pull every store from
.IR alice ,
then push every store back. SSH endpoints come from
.BR "account remote-url" .

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR account (1),
.BR config (1),
.BR pass (1),
.BR gpg (1),
.BR git (1).

.SH BUGS
Report at
.UR https://github.com/nostra124/scripts/issues
.UE .
